Barista_Job
Barista Job Responsibilities :

Promotes coffee consumption by educating customers ; selling coffee and coffee grinding and brewing equipment , accessories , and supplies ; preparing and serving a variety of coffee drinks , along with pastries and cookies .

Barista Job Duties :

Welcomes customers by determining their coffee interests and needs .
Educates customers by presenting and explaining the coffee drink menu ; answering questions .
Sells coffees and coffee grinding and brewing equipment by explaining differences in coffee beans and coffee preparation machines ; demonstrating how brewing equipment operates .
Prepares and sells coffee drinks by following prescribed recipes and preparation techniques for coffee drinks & various beans like Cuban Coffee beans, Java Coffee Beans , such as , expresso , expresso lungo , caffe latte , and cappuccino .
Generates revenues by attracting new customers ; defining new and expanded services and products .
Maintains inventories by replenishing coffee bean supply ; stocking coffee brewing equipment ; maintaining supplies , pastries , and cookies for coffee bar .
Keeps equipment operating by following operating instructions ; troubleshooting breakdowns ; maintaining supplies ; performing preventive maintenance ; calling for repairs .
Maintains safe and healthy work environment by following organization standards and sanitation regulations .
Improves quality results by studying , evaluating , and re-designing processes ; implementing changes ; maintaining and improving the appearance of the store and coffee bar .
Updates job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities ; reading coffee , retail trade , and food service publications ; maintaining personal networks .
Enhances coffee shop reputation by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests ; exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments .
Barista Skills and Qualifications :

Listening , Verbal Communication , Customer Focus , Customer Service , Basic Safety , People Skills , Action Oriented , Organization , Selling to Customer Needs , Attendance , Client Relationships

Job Summary and Mission

This position contributes to Starbucks success by providing legendary customer service to all customers. This job creates the Starbucks Experience for our customers by providing customers with prompt service, quality beverages and products, and maintaining a clean and comfortable store environment. Models and acts in accordance with Starbucks guiding principles.

 

Summary of Key Responsibilities

Responsibilities and essential job functions include but are not limited to the following:
Acts with integrity, honesty and knowledge that promote the culture, values and mission of Starbucks.
Maintains a calm demeanor during periods of high volume or unusual events to keep store operating to standard and to set a positive example for the shift team.
Anticipates customer and store needs by constantly evaluating environment and customers for cues. Communicates information to manager so that the team can respond as necessary to create the Third Place environment during each shift.
Assists with new partner training by positively reinforcing successful performance and giving respectful and encouraging coaching as needed.
Contributes to positive team environment by recognizing alarms or changes in partner morale and performance and communicating them to the store manager.
Delivers legendary customer service to all customers by acting with a customer comes first attitude and connecting with the customer. Discovers and responds to customer needs.
Follows Starbucks operational policies and procedures, including those for cash handling and safety and security, to ensure the safety of all partners during each shift.
Maintains a clean and organized workspace so that partners can locate resources and product as needed. 
Provides quality beverages, whole bean, and food products consistently for all customers by adhering to all recipe and presentation standards. Follows health, safety and sanitation guidelines for all products.
Recognizes and reinforces individual and team accomplishments by using existing organizational methods. 
Maintains regular and punctual attendance
 

Summary of Experience                                                  

 No previous experience required 
 

Basic Qualifications

Maintain regular and consistent attendance and punctuality, with or without reasonable accommodation
Available to work flexible hours that may include early mornings, evenings, weekends, nights and/or  holidays
Meet store operating policies and standards, including providing quality beverages and food products, cash handling and store safety and security, with or without reasonable accommodation
Engage with and understand our customers, including discovering and responding to customer needs through clear and pleasant communication
Comply with a dress code that prohibits displaying tattoos, piercings in excess of two per ear, and unnatural hair colors, such as blue or pink
Prepare food and beverages to standard recipes or customized for customers, including recipe changes such as temperature, quantity of ingredients or substituted ingredients
Available to perform many different tasks within the store during each shift
 

Required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

Ability to learn quickly
Ability to understand and carry out oral and written instructions and request clarification when needed
Strong interpersonal skills
Ability to work as part of a team
Ability to build relationships
Starbucks Corporation will consider qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistent with all federal, state, and local ordinances.
