Reporter_Job
This is a generic job description for a radio news reporter :

Function

The News Reporter works under the supervision of the News Director . The Reporter specializes in covering a news beat , produces daily news for radio newscasts , produces in-depth radio features , and produces special reports as assigned . The Reporter may be asked to anchor radio newscasts , appear as a guest on programs , or host programs . Increasing Web involvement is expected .

Duties

Reporting / Anchoring : 85%

Selects and researches topics ; contacts and interviews sources ; maintains notes and audio recordings ; writes and edits reports ; produces and voices reports for air . Produces news as assigned by News Director . Reports stories in appropriate forms for broadcast ( live on-air , copy , actuality , cut & copy , voicer , wrap , feature , series , documentary , studio two-way , etc. ) May be asked to anchor newscasts or host programs . Occasionally serves regional and national networks .

Planning : 10%

Maintains a beat specialty . Reads and follows major developments in specialty . Subscribes to pertinent publications and attends related events . Maintains contact lists and files for on-going continuity of coverage and accumulation of knowledge . Proactively participates in the creative cycle of story and program origination with reporters , supervisor , producers and Web staff .

Administration and Other : 5%

The Reporter attends meetings and is responsible for appropriate record keeping , correspondence , phone calls , supplies and equipment and other duties as assigned . Also will be called upon to participate in station membership campaigns and community-building events .

Other

The Reporter adheres to deadlines and , in concert with appropriate staff , makes timely and effective decisions in situations requiring prompt attention . The Reporter works in close concert with other staff and under the supervision of the XXXX News Director , assisting in identifying , developing and creating programs that support XXXX ‘s overall mission .

Qualifications

A four-year degree or equivalent required . Minimum one year full-time professional , experience in journalism . Must have expertise in news-gathering , writing , editing and radio production for short-form and long-form reports . Ideally would have familiarity with public radio news programming . Possesses broad knowledge of local and regional issues — and / or depth of knowledge in beat specialty . Demonstrates ability to work within a live broadcast environment . Displays knowledge and adherence to high ethical standards . Possesses effective communication and interpersonal skills . Skills required also include on-line research , word processing , digital editing , and operation of light office equipment . Additional preferred qualities include a track record of network story contributions , Web experience and Spanish skills . Must have excellent memory for details , be able to meet daily deadlines under pressure and deal effectively with simultaneous tasks .
