Reporter_Resume
Ann Nolan
Sometown , MN | (Available to Relocate) | Phone : ( 555 ) 555-5555
someone@somedomain.com

EXPERIENCED REPORTER
NEWS | SPORTS | BUSINESS | EDUCATION | LIFESTYLE FEATURES
Dedicated reporter with a nose for news , a passion for community journalism and a reputation for impeccable ethics .
Six-year record of commended performance as a staff reporter for print and online editions of local daily newspapers with circulations of up to 275,000.
Adept storyteller who treats news , features and other events with equal passion and thrives within the deadline-intensive , 24x7 newsroom environment .
Professional Experience
EAGLE LAKE REVIEW -- Eagle Lake , MN	Staff Reporter , 2008 to 2009
FERGUS FALLS JOURNAL -- Fergus Falls, MN	Staff Reporter , 2003 to 2008
Covered a range of areas (e.g. , news , sports  , business , education , health care , lifestyle , travel ) as a full-time general assignment reporter ( and photographer ) for local dailies .
Consistently singled out as one of the most prolific writers and productive story contributors among reporting staff at both papers . Never failed to meet a deadline .
Provided complete , accurate and compelling coverage of both anticipated and spontaneous news for print and online media .
Earned repeated commendations for excellence in writing , reporting , photojournalism and infographics .
Internships
THE STAR TRIBUNE -- Minneapolis, MN	Intern , 2003
ABC UNIVERSITY -- Minneapolis, MN	Public Information Intern , 2002
Interned at Minneapolis' major daily and at the Public Information Department of the University of Minnesota during junior and senior years .
Fulfilled multifaceted duties that included reporting , news / feature writing , researching , fact-checking , proofreading and headline / cutline writing .
Education
ABC UNIVERSITY -- Minneapolis, MN
BA in Journalism, 2003

CONCURRENT EMPLOYMENT : Served as Assistant Editor and Staff Reporter for university newspaper ( The Minnesota Daily ) throughout college career (1999 to 2003).

Key Skills

Community Journalism
Multimedia Reporting
News Writing
Sports Writing
Business Writing
Feature Writing
AP Style
Photojournalism
Columns / Op Ed Pieces
Proofreading / Editing
Research & Fact-Checking
Technology Summary

Windows & Mac OS Platforms
MS Office ( Word, Excel, PowerPoint )
Digital & 35mm Cameras
Infographics Tools & Software  ( Flash , Processing , Dundas , Infragistics )
