Doctor_Resume
Career Objective
Seeking a position at a level-two trauma center , where I can use 3 years of general surgery experience to provide the best possible surgical care to trauma victims while maintaining a clear malpractice record .
Career Summary
A trusted , patient focused and experienced locum doctor with a long history of serving patients by successfully diagnosing , treating and also managing their illnesses and diseases having rich experience of 3+ years as a surgeon .
Experience in diagonsing the disease and providing best medical help .
Experts in surgery of trauma patient .
Good experience in helping the general surgery .
Experience of the day to day management of a busy doctors practice surgery
Expert in maintaining the daily report of patients .
Personal Qualities
Dealing with patient complaints about the quality of service of the practice .
Excellent communication skills in written and verbal both .
Able to lead and motivate staff .
Ability to prioritize work loads during busy periods .
Controlling multiple projects at the same time .
Key Responsibilities Handled
Responsible for accident and emergency ( A&E ) medical treatment .
Dealing sympathetically with sensitive circumstances .
Keeping up to date with the latest treatments , medicines and medical developments .
Provided care to patients on hospital wards , outpatient clinics and also doctors surgeries .
Assisted in the operating theaters in surgical operations .
Worked in a pressurized environment and produce the best result .
Trained the new junior doctors .
Provided help to the team during the surgery .
Technical Skills
Well versed with the basic use of computer .
Familiar with all the surgical equipment of the operation theater .
Internet savvy .
Achievements
Receive “ Gold Medal ” in All Indian health care group in 2010 - 2011
Give many speeches for general precautions in many villages .
Provide free medical help to many poor people in villages during camps .
Attended many seminars as chief guest .
Employers
Working as Chief surgeon at DFG Hospital from 2011 - present .
Worked as Chief Doctor in FGH Hospital from 2009 - 2011 .
Academia
MS in Trauma
MBBS from JHSD medical college
Personal Details
Languages Known : Hindi , English
DOB : MM/DD/YYYY
Address : HDJBJS
