Mechanical_Engineer_Resume
MARY SMITH 15 Sideview Way | Sometown, PA 17000 Phone: (555) 555-5555 | Email: ms@somedomain.com | LinkedIn URL Recent graduate of ABET-accredited BSME program seeking an entry-level mechanical engineering position . Key skills and knowledge areas : Solid command of technologies , tools and best practices in designing mechanical equipment using AutoCAD , SolidWorks and engineering drawings . Excellent shop and safety skills honed from work as a machinist and welder . Able to design and fabricate tooling and mechanical test fixtures . Strong team collaboration skills . Work closely with team members to achieve engineering goals .​ EDUCATION ABC University -- Sometown, PA Ranked in the top 10 mechanical engineering schools by US News and World Report Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering ( BSME ), GPA : 3.4, 12/2011 Completed Courses in Major : Statics , Dynamics , Engineering Analysis , Mechanics of Materials , Fluid Mechanics , Dynamics of Machinery , Measurement and Instrumentation , Mechanical Engineering Thermodynamics , Industrial Processes , Elements of Material Engineering , Machine Design , Mechanical Vibrations , Thermal Systems Laboratory , Heat and Mass Transfer Senior Design Project (6/2011 to 12/2011): Completed senior project at DEF Company , a manufacturer of machine tools for the sheet metal industry . Assisted engineering department in designing straight hand seamer used in bending , seaming and flattening sheet metal . Created models using SolidWorks and participated in cross-functional product-development meetings . Contributed idea for change in handle design that is expected to improve comfort and safety when gripping the seamer . Product is currently in preproduction testing phase . TECHNICAL SKILLS Programs : AutoCAD , SolidWorks , MS Project , MATLAB , MS Excel Machining and Welding Tools : CNCs , mills , lathes , angle grinders , plasma cutters , oxy-acetylene torches , arc welders , band saws , grinders , shears , drill presses , chop saws , etc. WORK EXPERIENCE Machinist & Welder (contractor) , 9/2010 to Present Hired by ABC Machining Company as well as local construction companies to handle per-diem projects . Earned a reputation as a talented machinist and welder . Developed excellent fabrication and machine shop skills , completing all projects on time and to specifications . Handled welding assignments that involved installing , repairing and fabricating materials ( sheet metal , steel , tools , parts , doors , gates and more ). Became adept at reading blueprints / drawings and fulfilling work orders . Demonstrated advanced skills in operating equipment and machines including CNC machines , cutting machines and hydraulic presses for the fabrication of mechanical components.
