Software_Developer_Resume
Gaurav Ketkar
Cell : +1 678 786 4298
Website : ketkar.me
LinkedIn : /in/gketkar
Visa Status : F1
Email : ​gketkar08@gmail.com
Github : ​/ketcomp

EXPERIENCE

Software Development Intern ESPN , Bristol CT Fall 2015
Developed & launched a web­app using HTML5 and Node.js ( MEAN stack ) to collect voice samples ​ Link
Used template engine Jade , CSS and JS for frontend , Express for the web­app and MongoDB for the database
Reduced data collection time by more than 75% & increased the accuracy of data collected dramatically
Came up with a novel way to pilot­ test the application and drive user interest in the project

Research Student FIVE Lab , UT Dallas . Dr. Ryan McMahan Spring 2015
Worked with Dr. Ryan McMahan to track subjects in 3D space ​ without​ using external​ ​ cameras . Used computer vision
techniques in OpenCV & Unity on the Samsung Gear VR virtual reality system .
Presented to a group of investors in order to secure research funding for the ​ FIVE lab​ . Investors included
representatives from the Mark Cuban Companies ​ Link - Video

EDUCATION
MS , Computer Science ​ GPA 3.6 University of Texas at Dallas ​ ( Expected ) ​ August 2016
Relevant Coursework​ :​ Implementation of Adv. Data Structures & Algorithms , Database Design , Artificial Intelligence ,
Machine Learning , Natural Language Processing , Web Programming Languages .

BE , Electronics Engineering ​ GPA 3.8 University of Mumbai , India June 2014
Relevant Coursework​ : ​Computer vision , Computer networks , Fuzzy Systems and Neural Networks 
Other Experience - Debate Team Captain , President Of Cultural Affairs in Student Government

PROJECTS
Implemented various data structures and algorithms in Java ​ ( Java ) Spring 2016
Modified various searching , sorting and shortest path algorithms to make them efficient .
Implemented various advanced data structures i.e. Heaps , Priority Queues , Doubly Linked Lists , Hash Tables etc.

Resume scanning tool that gives the match % with the job description ​ ( Python ) Spring 2016
Used Natural Language Processing algorithms & concepts like N­Grams , Add­one smoothing , Good Turing
smoothing to find the match between a given job description and the input text resume .

Determined the match % and suggested areas that are either lacking or in excess .
Created a library management database system using SQL ​ ( SQL ) Spring 2016
Designed and implemented the database schema modelled on an actual library’s database requirements
Features included Search , Due date extension , Fine calculator etc.

Implemented 9­man morris using Artificial Intelligence ​ ( Python ) Summer 2015
Implemented this game with a command­line interface based on Alpha-Beta pruning , Min­Max & BFS algorithms
Computer could play with user or computer itself . Computer usually won .

Virtual reality wearable simulation game with Artificial Intelligence ​ ( C# ) Fall 2014
Developed ​ a warfare scene in Unity using Maya , the Oculus Rift DK-2 . The AI was based on simple metrics like
distance between two characters on the screen , noise made by user , gestures made by user etc .

Crowd density detection in trains using camera ​ ( Python ) Summer 2014
Used OpenCV ( Python ) to find the most crowded compartments in a train to improve passenger load distribution

LEADERSHIP
Jagriti Yatra , ​ December 2013 Selected from 18k . A competitive pan­India tour about entrepreneurship .​ ​ Link
President of Cultural Affairs , ​ Fall 2013 Part of the student council in college . Led 80+ students creating stage-shows .
Debate team captain , ​ 2012-2014 Debate team captain for 2 years in college .
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Languages and Frameworks Java , Python , JavaScript ( Node.js ), Bash , Git , HTML , CSS .
Databases MySQL
